feat(feedback): Add SDK docs for User Feedback (#8528)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/common/user-feedback/index.mdx

---
title: Set Up User Feedback
sidebar_order: 6000
redirect_from:
  - /learn/user-feedback/
description: "Learn more about collecting user feedback when an event occurs. Sentry pairs the feedback with the original event, giving you additional insight into issues."
---

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript"]} notSupported={["javascript.electron", "node", "react-native"]}>
<Include name="feature-stage-beta-user-feedback.mdx" />

> Sentry now allows you to collect user feedback from anywhere inside of your application, without requiring an error event to occur. This requires a minimum SDK version of [#TODO](#TODO). The previous [Crash-Report modal](#crash-report-dialog) still exists to handle user feedback that is associated with an error event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry now allows you to collect user feedback from anywhere inside of your application, without requiring an error event to occur. This requires a minimum SDK version of [#TODO](#TODO). The previous [Crash-Report Modal](#crash-report-modal) still exists to handle user feedback that is associated with an error event.
```

## User Feedback Widget

> Our embeddable JavaScript widget allows your users to submit feedback from anywhere inside of your application. This differs from the [Crash-Report modal](#crash-report-dialog) which is reactive feedback that is specifically tied to an error event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our embeddable JavaScript widget allows your users to submit feedback from anywhere inside of your application. This differs from the [Crash-Report Modal](#crash-report-modal) which is reactive feedback that is specifically tied to an error event.
```

> Our embeddable JavaScript widget allows your users to submit feedback from anywhere inside of your application. This differs from the [Crash-Report Modal](#crash-report-modal) which is reactive feedback that is specifically tied to an error event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The embeddable JavaScript widget allows users to submit feedback from anywhere inside your application. The [Crash-Report Modal](#crash-report-modal) collects reactive feedback tied to an error event.
```

<SignInNote />

<PlatformContent includePath="user-feedback/setup" />

By default, this will insert the widget into the bottom right corner of your website. You're free to customize nearly every aspect of the widget, including replacing it completely with your own UI.

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection notSupported={["javascript"]}>
  When a user experiences an error, Sentry provides the ability to collect
  additional feedback. You can collect feedback according to the method
  supported by the SDK.
</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["ruby"]} notSupported={["ruby.rails"]}>

While this feature isn't currently supported for Ruby or most of its frameworks, it is supported for [Rails](/platforms/ruby/guides/rails/user-feedback/).

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["native"]}>

**The user feedback feature is not currently supported for this SDK.**

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript", "java", "apple", "android", "dart", "flutter", "unreal", "react-native", "kotlin-multiplatform"]}>

## User Feedback API

> The user feedback API provides the ability to collect user information when an event occurs. You can use the same programming language you have in your app to send user feedback. In this case, the SDK creates the HTTP request so you don't have to deal with posting data via HTTP.

Author: The modal wont' be used if the user calls the API directly though

> The user feedback API provides the ability to collect user information when an event occurs. You can use the same programming language you have in your app to send user feedback. In this case, the SDK creates the HTTP request so you don't have to deal with posting data via HTTP.

Reviewer: Maybe it's obvious to others, but I'd like more clarity here. How does the user feedback API connect to the widget? Can you use the widget without the API or do you need to set up both? The way it's described seems kinda similar to the crash report modal

Reviewer 3: @vivianyentran The crash-report modal Sentry provides is only for Web platforms. You can still leverage the User Feedback functionality by calling the API for these other non-web platforms.

Author: @vivianyentran Thoughts on the new text?

> The user feedback API allows you to collect user feedback while utilizing your own UI. You can use the same programming language you have in your app to send user feedback. In this case, the SDK creates the HTTP request so you don't have to deal with posting data via HTTP.

</Note>

You can create a form to collect the user input in your preferred framework, and use the SDK's API to send the information to Sentry. You can also use the widget, as described below. If you'd prefer an alternative to the widget or do not have a JavaScript frontend, you can use this API or a [Web API](/api/projects/submit-user-feedback/).

```csharp {tabTitle:C#}
using Sentry;

var eventId = SentrySdk.CaptureMessage("An event that will receive user feedback.");

SentrySdk.CaptureUserFeedback(eventId, "user@example.com", "It broke.", "The User");
```

```fsharp {tabTitle:F#}
open Sentry

let eventId = SentrySdk.CaptureMessage("An event that will receive user feedback.")

SentrySdk.CaptureUserFeedback(eventId, "user@example.com", "It broke.", "The User")
```

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection notSupported={["android", "apple", "java", "native", "dart", "flutter", "ruby", "unity", "react-native", "unreal", "kotlin-multiplatform"]}>

## Crash-Report Modal

> Our embeddable, JavaScript-based, Crash-Report modal is useful when you may typically render a plain error page (the classic `500.html`) on your website.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our embeddable, JavaScript-based, Crash-Report modal is useful when you would typically render a plain error page (the classic `500.html`) on your website.
```

To collect feedback, the Crash-Report modal requests and collects the user's name, email address, and a description of what occurred. When feedback is provided, Sentry pairs the feedback with the original event, giving you additional insights into issues.

The screenshot below provides an example of the Crash-Report modal, though yours may differ depending on your customization:

![An example of a Crash-Report modal with text boxes for user name, email, and additional details about the break.](user_feedback_widget.png)

### Integration

The modal authenticates with your public DSN, then passes in the Event ID that was generated on your backend.

<PlatformContent includePath="user-feedback/example-widget" />

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["ruby.rails"]}>

## Crash-Report Modal

> Our embeddable, JavaScript-based, Crash-Report modal is useful when you may typically render a plain error page (the classic `500.html`) on your website.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our embeddable, JavaScript-based, Crash-Report modal is useful when you would typically render a plain error page (the classic `500.html`) on your website.
```

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["native"]} >

**The user feedback feature is not currently supported for this SDK.**

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript", "java", "apple", "android", "dart", "flutter", "unreal", "react-native", "kotlin-multiplatform"]} >

## User Feedback API

The user feedback API provides the ability to collect user information when an event occurs. You can use the same programming language you have in your app to send user feedback. In this case, the SDK creates the HTTP request so you don't have to deal with posting data via HTTP.

<PlatformSection notSupported={["unreal", "kotlin-multiplatform"]}>

Sentry pairs the feedback with the original event, giving you additional insight into issues. Sentry needs the `eventId` to be able to associate the user feedback to the corresponding event. For example, to get the `eventId`, you can use <PlatformLink to="/configuration/options/#before-send"><PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" /></PlatformLink> or the return value of the method capturing an event.

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformContent includePath="enriching-events/user-feedback/sdk-api-example" />

> If you'd prefer an alternative to the widget or do not have a JavaScript frontend, you can use the [User Feedback API](/api/projects/submit-user-feedback/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you'd prefer an alternative to the feedback form or do not have a JavaScript frontend, you can use the [User Feedback API](/api/projects/submit-user-feedback/).
```

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["dotnet"]}>

## Use the .NET SDK

<Note>

User Feedback for **[ASP.NET](/platforms/dotnet/guides/aspnet/enriching-events/user-feedback/#integration)** or **[ASP.NET Core](/platforms/dotnet/guides/aspnetcore/enriching-events/user-feedback/#integration)** supply integrations specific to supporting those SDKs.

</Note>

> You can create a form to collect the user input in your preferred framework, and use the SDK's API to send the information to Sentry. You can also use the widget, as described below. If you'd prefer an alternative to the widget or do not have a JavaScript frontend, you can use this API or a [Web API](/api/projects/submit-user-feedback/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can create a form to collect the user input in your preferred framework, and use the SDK's API to send the information to Sentry. You can also use the feedback form, as described below. If you'd prefer an alternative to the feedback form or do not have a JavaScript frontend, you can use this API or a [Web API](/api/projects/submit-user-feedback/).
```

```csharp {tabTitle:C#}
using Sentry;

var eventId = SentrySdk.CaptureMessage("An event that will receive user feedback.");

SentrySdk.CaptureUserFeedback(eventId, "user@example.com", "It broke.", "The User");
```

```fsharp {tabTitle:F#}
open Sentry

let eventId = SentrySdk.CaptureMessage("An event that will receive user feedback.")

SentrySdk.CaptureUserFeedback(eventId, "user@example.com", "It broke.", "The User")
```

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection notSupported={["android", "apple", "java", "native", "dart", "flutter", "ruby", "unity", "react-native", "unreal", "kotlin-multiplatform"]}>

> ## Crash Report Widget

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Crash Report Modal
```

> Our embeddable, JavaScript-based, crash report widget is useful when you may typically render a plain error page (the classic `500.html`) on your website.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Our embeddable, JavaScript-based, crash report modal is useful when you may typically render a plain error page (the classic `500.html`) on your website.
```

> To collect feedback, the widget requests and collects the user's name, email address, and a description of what occurred. When feedback is provided, Sentry pairs the feedback with the original event, giving you additional insights into issues.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To collect feedback, the feedback form requests and collects the user's name, email address, and a description of what occurred. When feedback is provided, Sentry pairs the feedback with the original event, giving you additional insights into issues.
```

> The screenshot below provides an example of the Crash Report widget, though yours may differ depending on your customization:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The screenshot below provides an example of the Crash Report Modal, though yours may differ depending on your customization:
```

> ![An example of a crash report widget with text boxes for user name, email, and additional details about the break.](user_feedback_widget.png)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
![An example of a crash report modal with text boxes for user name, email, and additional details about the exception.](user_feedback_widget.png)
```

### Integration

> The widget authenticates with your public DSN, then passes in the Event ID that was generated on your backend.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The modal authenticates with your public DSN, then passes in the Event ID that was generated on your backend.
```

<PlatformContent includePath="enriching-events/user-feedback/example-widget" />

</PlatformSection>

> <PlatformSection supported={["ruby.rails"]}>

Author: Unfortunately, we would need to hardcode in a list of all `supported` platforms, so if someone where to add in a new platform, it wouldn't be included here (this seems to have been done intentionally).

> <PlatformSection supported={["ruby.rails"]}>

Reviewer 5: This might help in the future (https://github.com/getsentry/team-sdks/issues/35), for now we'll need to list all supported ones

> <PlatformSection supported={["ruby.rails"]}>

Reviewer 5: Today we list all unsupported versions (once in a while it shows up where it shouldn't like new mobile SDKs, etc):

https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/blob/07bed55b0378ff523988edfcbdbf9e31f2a03eab/src/platforms/common/enriching-events/user-feedback.mdx#L69

> <PlatformSection supported={["ruby.rails"]}>

Reviewer 2: Yeah @billyvg - unfortunately, that's just how the SDK docs work at this point and even if it's awkward, it's best to be consistent.

> <PlatformSection supported={["ruby.rails"]}>

Author: FWIW, this was unchanged from how we were previously doing it: https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/pull/8528/files#diff-494f8fd11fe7205c9ab2bdba2dfa76425b281dca0f3ed530072dbc24957fe990L133
